Update downsample with notebooks (#3440)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.1/notebooks/downsample.md

---
title: Downsample data with notebooks
description: >
  Downsample data to summarize data at specified time intervals and reduce the
  overall disk usage as data collects over time.
  Learn how to create a notebook that downsamples data.
weight: 104
influxdb/v2.1/tags: [notebooks]
menu:
  influxdb_2_1:
    name: Downsample data
    identifier: notebooks-downsample
    parent: Notebooks
---

Downsample data to summarize data at specified time intervals and reduce the
overall disk usage as data collects over time.
Learn how to create a notebook that downsamples data.

The following example creates a notebook that queries **Coinbase bitcoin price

> sample data**, downsamples the data into hourly summaries, and then writes the

Author: This makes it sound like it's downsampling on a schedule (like the notebook is scheduled).

> sample data**, downsamples the data into hourly summaries, and then writes the

Author: Ah, ok, so I need to explain a little better. I'll update the description and be more explicit in the instructions.

{{% /note %}}

1. [Create a new notebook](/influxdb/v2.1/notebooks/create-notebook/).
2.  In the **Build a Query** cell:

    1.  In the **FROM** column under **{{% caps %}}Sample{{% /caps %}}**,
        select **Coinbase bitcoin price**.
    2.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_measurement** from the drop-down list
        and select the **coindesk** measurement in the list of measurements.
    3.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_field** from the drop-down list,
        and select the **price** field from the list of fields.
    4.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **code** from the drop-down list,
        and select a currency code from the list.

3.  Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} after your **Build a Query** cell to 
    add a new cell and select **{{% caps %}}Flux Script{{% /caps %}}**.

4.  In the Flux script cell:
    
    1.  Use `__PREVIOUS_RESULT__` to load the output of the previous notebook
        cell into the Flux script.
    3.  Use [`aggregateWindow()`](/{{< latest "flux" >}}/stdlib/universe/aggregateWindow/)
        to window data into one hour intervals and return the average of each hour.
        Specify the following parameters:

>         - **every**: Window interval _(should be less than or equal to the selected query time range)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **every**: Window interval _(should be within the selected query time range)_.
```

Author: "within" feels loaded here. A time range can be defined by timestamps or relative durations. What about this:

```suggestion
        - **every**: Window interval _(should be less than or equal to the duration of the queried time range)_.
```

Reviewer: "loaded" meaning unclear? :-)
 yes, that works....my thought was the relation wasn't super correlative: less than 1-2pm

>         - **fn**: [Aggregate]({{< latest "flux" >}}/function-types/#selectors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **fn**: [Aggregate]({{< latest "flux" >}}/function-types/#aggregates)
```

>           or [selector function]({{< latest "flux" >}}/function-types/#selectors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          or [selector]({{< latest "flux" >}}/function-types/#selectors) function
```

Reviewer: curious, is something off with latest flux tag? routing to this on localhost:
/influxdb/cloud/notebooks/downsample/flux/v0.x/function-types/#selectors

same with curious, is something off with latest flux tag? routing to this on localhost:
/influxdb/cloud/notebooks/downsample/flux/v0.x/function-types/#aggregates

Author: Yeah, I missed the first `/` before the shortcode. I fixed them.

          to apply to each window.

    4.  {{% cloud-only %}}
        
        Use [`to()`](/{{< latest "flux">}}/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/to/)
        to write the downsampled data back to an InfluxDB bucket.

        {{% /cloud-only %}}
    
    {{% oss-only %}}

    ```js
    __PREVIOUS_RESULT__
        |> aggregateWindow(every: 1h, fn: mean)
    ```
    {{% /oss-only %}}

    {{% cloud-only %}}

    ```js
    __PREVIOUS_RESULT__
        |> aggregateWindow(every: 1h, fn: mean)
        |> to(bucket: "example-bucket")
    ```
    {{% /cloud-only %}}

4.  {{% oss-only %}}
    
    Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} after your **Flux Script** cell to 
    add a new cell and select **{{% caps %}}Output to Bucket{{% /caps %}}**.
    Select a bucket from the **{{% icon "bucket" %}} Choose a bucket**
    drop-down list. 

    {{% /oss-only %}}
    
5.  _(Optional)_ Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} and select **Note** to

>     add a cell containing notes about what this notebook does. For example, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    add a note to describe your notebook, for example, 
```

>     cell might say, "This notebook downsamples Coinbase bitcoin prices into hourly averages."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 "Downsample Coinbase bitcoin prices into hourly averages."
```

6.  {{% oss-only %}}

>     Click **Preview** in the upper left to verify that your notebook runs and previews the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click **Preview** in the upper left to verify that your notebook runs and displays the output.
```

    
    {{% /oss-only %}}
6.  Click **Run** to run the notebook and write the downsampled data to your bucket.

> ## Continuously run a notebook

Reviewer: Thoughts on _Continuously write data using a notebook_...possibly more explicit, but maybe not necessary?

Author: Notebooks don't necessarily write data. This particular example does. I don't know that it's necessary to say that.

To continuously run your notebook, export the notebook as a task:

> 1.  Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} to add a new cell and then select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} to add a new cell, and then select
```
